I had a few requests asking to show how
to treat the goat skin head with the
skin conditioning treatment so I'm going
to show you that today
now I compare breaking in a new skin
kind of similar to breaking in a new
pair of leather shoes where they're
stiff and uncomfortable at first but the
more you wear them the more comfortable
they get and the skin is kind of like
that the more you play it the better it
will sound and that's because striking
with the tipper on one side and then
manipulating the tone with the hand
pressure at the back kind of helps you
soften up the skin and give it that
broken-in feeling now treating it with a
skin conditioner can help that process
along a little bit so some of you might
find this useful if the skin is still
quite stiff and tight and it's just a
little bit frustrating to play on now
the the the product that I use is
something called arc DIC dubbin arctic
dub and you can get I'm sure that's just
the brand name but you can use all kinds
of different things like lanlan cream or
neat's-foot oil I've heard people using
something like Mary Kay extra moly night
cream I'm sure that'd be the more
expensive option but I like this dub and
it looks kind of like Vaseline it's
quite sticky and I picked this up at
Home Hardware in Canada when I go back
there because it's um it's quite readily
available there the Devon that we get
here in Scotland has a bit of an orange
tint to it so I prefer to use the the
clear stuff so what I do is I just if
it's a little bit too stiff I will take
the cover off and it's just in a plastic
container and I'll stick in the
microwave for maybe 20 or 30 seconds and
just softens that a little bit makes it
easier to spread so I'm just going to
show you how to apply it to the skin all
right I'm just going to use my fingers
and scoop some of the dubbing out and
just rub it into the skin and massage it
into every inch of the skin all around
the beveled edge there and you're gonna
do this with the entire head just in big
circular motions and you know I can do
this for maybe
I'd take maybe about at least 10 to 15
minutes and really work it into the skin
and then you're gonna leave it on
overnight and so the next day after
you've rubbed it all in the next day
you're going to take something like a
lint free cloth or rag and you're just
gonna rub in big circular motions and
rub all of the devon off and you know if
you have it all off by when you go to
plane you have it held up against your
side if it's still tacky against your
clothing you still need to be maybe
either rub it more so you should feel an
instant difference in the actual feeling
of the playing surface but also in the
tone of the drum just a few more notes
on treating the skin I personally treat
the playing side of the skin because
that's the side that's going to receive
my tipper so if you're really bothered
by that rough scraping sound of the
tipper dragging on the skin the softer
you make that skin and especially the
side that the tipper is making contact
with it's going to make a lot more sense
to treat that side the other thing is if
you have a non tunable drum I wouldn't
treat both sides of the skin because
that kind of waterproofs it and will
make it harder to wet down so I would
wet the inside to slack in the skin
tension of a non tunable Boram also if
you live in a really dry climate you can
probably afford to treat the skin a few
more times then if you live kind of in a
more humid climate just be careful if
you live in a climate that is really dry
in the wintertime and you have a lot of
central heating on the drum seems really
really tight you can kind of get
overexcited and over treat it and then
come the humid summer time it can be a
little bit too floppy and if it's a non
tunable drum then you're left with
taking your hairdryer everywhere so it's
much easier to wet it down with a spray
bottle than to take your hair dryer or
everywhere you go so I'd love to know
how you get on with that advice and what
product you chose to use to treat your
skin and if you notice the difference in
the tone and how your stick received the
skin if you if you have that scrapey
problem before and if it's helped you
avoid that so yeah I'd love to hear your
feedback and good luck with that